
Official Mobile App of Narendra Modi. It brings to you latest information, instant updates & helps you contribute towards various tasks. It provides a unique opportunity to receive messages and emails directly from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.



Download the app and get the latest updates anywhere, anytime!



Highlights of the Narendra Modi App:



• Receive the latest news and updates

• Attractive infographics that illustrate the work of the NDA government to transform India.

• Exclusive opportunity to receive E-Mails & Messages directly from PM Narendra Modi.

• 'Mann Ki Baat' with the PM Narendra Modi.

• Exciting features that empower you to contribute towards making a positive difference in society.



• Watch Videos on our section NaMo TV, Watch Latest PM speeches

• Thoughtful forums where you can share your ideas, views and deliberate with a wide range of people.

• Small Tasks, Big Satisfaction: Contribute & earn Badges through the to-do tasks.

• Your chance to Interact with PM Narendra Modi & share Ideas & Suggestions.

• Never miss out thoughts from PM Modi, read his Blogs.

• Be the first to get NaMo merchandise and contribute to BJP with micro-donations

• Read about PM Modi’s Governance initiatives & achievements.

• Learn more about PM Modi’s efforts augmenting India’s Global Recognition.

• Receive personalised Birthday Greetings from the PM



You can access the app even as a guest without entering your email address or phone. This is unlike most other Apps, where some sort of info is required.
President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will host Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India for an Official State Visit to the United States, which will include a state dinner, on June 22, 2023. The upcoming visit will affirm the deep and close partnership between the United States and India and the warm bonds of family and friendship that link Americans and Indians together. The visit will strengthen our two countries’ shared commitment to a free, open, prosperous, and secure Indo-Pacific and our shared resolve to elevate our strategic technology partnership, including in defense, clean energy, and space. The leaders will discuss ways to further expand our educational exchanges and people-to-people ties, as well as our work together to confront common challenges from climate change, to workforce development and health security.

###

The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day.
About 969 mil­lion peo­ple will take part in the gi­ant elec­tions to de­cide who will rule the world’s most pop­u­lous na­tion.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
WASHINGTON (AP) — President Joe Biden has made it a mission for the U.S. to build friendships overseas — and the next few weeks will offer a vivid demonstration of the importance he’s placing on a relationship with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The two are both scheduled to attend this week’s Group of Seven summit in Japan, a subsequent gathering of Pacific island leaders in Papua New Guinea, and a later meeting of Indo-Pacific leaders in Australia. Those travels will be followed by a June 22 state visit by Modi to Washington, a sign that both seem willing to deepen their bonds.

But like many geopolitical friendships, things are complicated between the world’s largest economy (the U.S.) and its most populous nation (India).

The personal outreach has a clear strategic calculus as both countries respond to China’s economic rise and increased global prominence. Yet while Biden champions democratic ideals and openly opposes Russia for invading Ukraine, Modi has offered tepid criticism of Russia and opponents say he is eroding India’s democratic traditions.

That means the future of the alliance depends on a degree of patience.

“It’s a long game of steady forward movement in defense relations and some fairly rapid intensification of business ties — with the pace of both determined by the speed of movement on the Indian side,” said Kurt Tong, a former ambassador for the U.S. who is now managing partner of The Asia Group, a consultancy.

Biden last year publicly called India’s response to the war in Ukraine “shaky.” India abstained from voting on U.N. resolutions condemning Russia and refused to join the global coalition against Russia. Modi had a relatively warm relationship with Biden’s predecessor, Donald Trump, and has made some efforts to forge a connection with Biden, who is known to focus on his Irish roots even when meeting with leaders of other nations.

When Modi came to Washington in September 2021, he brought with him documents about people with the last name “Biden” in India.

“Are we related?” Biden asked.

“Yes,” Modi joked.

While visiting Canada in March, Biden said he’s made it a strategic goal to improve relations with the rest of the world as he feels that America’s leverage against China and Russia is through its alliances.

“I have now met with 80% of the world leaders just since I’ve been president,” he said. “We’re the ones expanding the alliances. The opposition is not.”

Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay, a biographer of Modi, said the Indian leader’s connection with Biden is not personal — and has its limits. But it is necessary for the U.S. to keep India on its side as tensions with China have accelerated over Taiwan, the federal government’s ban on exporting advanced computer chips to China and human rights issues.

“To what extent can India be part of the U.S.-led alliance, that is for Modi to decide,” Mukhopadhyay said. “At some point or the other, the Americans would realize that Modi is not really going the whole hog as much as they would like India to be. But Modi will not get swayed by meeting Biden several times.”

Nirupama Rao, a retired diplomat who served as Indian ambassador to the U.S., said India has its reasons for not joining the condemnation of Moscow.

“The country wants Russia to maintain some distance from China, and it worries that isolating Moscow would just push it closer to Beijing,” she said. Relations between India and China are strained, with the two sides embroiled in an intense three-year standoff involving thousands of soldiers stationed along their disputed border in the eastern Ladakh region.

Rao said U.S. policymakers should not mistake India’s involvement in the so-called Quad — whose other members are the U.S., Japan and Australia — for an alliance. India is also in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a group dominated by Beijing and Moscow. It routinely attends trilateral meetings with China and Russia. It also continues to participate in the forum known as BRICS, which stands for Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.

“So far, India has done an impressive job of maintaining its balancing act,” she said. “Whether it can continue to do so in the years ahead is an open question. Beijing has become increasingly belligerent, and it may eventually decide it will not deal with India if New Delhi strengthens its security ties to Washington.”

Both the U.S. and India have been emphasizing technology partnerships, including defense, clean energy and space. During Modi’s visit to the U.S. in June, the two leaders are also expected to discuss common challenges, including climate change and health security.

Russia is India’s largest supplier of military hardware. But India has been reducing its dependence on Russian arms by diversifying its purchases, buying from the U.S., France, Germany and other countries. The U.S. defense trade with India has risen from near zero in 2008 to over $20 billion in 2020.

The U.S. imported about $86 billion in goods from India last year, according to the Census Bureau. That figure has steadily increased, but it has room to grow as the U.S. still gets more goods from Taiwan and Vietnam than India. With more than 1.4 billion people, India is about 14 times the size of Taiwan and Vietnam combined.

There are some risks for Biden as he devotes more time to Modi, with advocates for human rights wary of the Indian leader’s track record. The freedom of the news media in India has been challenged after Modi became prime minister in 2014. Political rivals of Modi’s governing Hindu nationalist party have accused him of stifling dissent and introducing divisive policies that discriminate against Muslims and other minorities.

Modi’s Hindu nationalist party also suffered a political setback as India’s main opposition Congress party won control of the southern Karnataka state, according to a near complete vote count Saturday. The victory could help unite the largely divided opposition in next year’s general election, in which Modi will seek a third consecutive term as prime minister.

Yet for Biden, developing a personal rapport out of public view might be critical for overcoming any differences with Modi.

“In this case, the investment is worth it,” said Lisa Curtis, director of the Indo-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, a think tank. “There are a lot of things that President Biden can say privately to Prime Minister Modi that could end up having a favorable impact on U.S.-India relations.”

___

Sharma reported from New Delhi, India.
India came to a halt Monday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the opening of a grand Hindu temple on a contested holy site that has become a symbol of religious tensions in the world’s largest democracy.

The $217 million Ram Mandir honors Lord Ram, the most revered deity in Hinduism, and is transforming Ayodhya, a city of about 3 million people in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, into a tourist hub that officials hope will be a Hindu version of the Vatican.

Dressed in a traditional kurta tunic, Modi led the consecration ceremony as Hindu priests chanted hymns and a 4.25-foot statue of Lord Ram was unveiled in the temple’s inner sanctum. Indian Air Force helicopters showered the temple with flower petals as Modi placed a lotus in front of the black stone idol, which was adorned with gold ornaments.

“After centuries of waiting, our Ram has arrived,” he said in a speech after the ceremony, addressing thousands of devotees, politicians, businesspeople and celebrities gathered for the event.

“We are laying the foundation of India for the next 1,000 years from this moment,” he said.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the consecration ceremony for the temple. AFP - Getty Images

The temple was built on the site of Babri Masjid, a mosque dating to the 16th century that was destroyed by Hindu nationalist mobs in 1992, setting off riots across the country that killed about 2,000 people, mostly Muslims. In 2019, India’s Supreme Court ruled that the temple could be built on the disputed 7-acre site, in a controversial decision that was criticized by Muslim groups.

The inauguration of the temple, which is still far from complete, comes as Modi and his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party prepare to run for a record third consecutive term in elections this spring. The BJP had been advocating for the temple for decades as a way to celebrate Hindu identity after centuries of Mughal and British rule. Its opening could help Modi win favor with voters in India, a country of 1.4 billion people that has been majority Hindu since it gained independence in 1947.

The consecration ceremony was celebrated as a national event, with many states declaring a public holiday, stock markets closing down and temples across the country holding their own ceremonies.

The Indian news media was dominated by coverage of the event, which was broadcast live across India and at Indian diplomatic missions and other sites around the world, including in Times Square in New York late Sunday.

In Mauritius, a small island nation in the Indian Ocean where almost half the population is Hindu, public officers of Hindu faith were given two hours off work to watch it.

Some Hindu religious leaders had refused to attend the ceremony, saying a Hindu temple cannot be consecrated until it is finished. Other critics, including India’s main opposition Congress party, accused Modi of stoking religious tensions.

Sunita Viswanath, executive director of the U.S.-based nonprofit group Hindus for Human Rights, said the ceremony was an “electoral stunt” that “should not be happening in the name of my faith.”

“Modi is not a priest, so leading this ceremony for political gain is both technically and morally wrong,” she said in a news release. “This weaponization of our religion tramples what’s left of India’s secular democratic values.”

The city of Ayodhya is remaking itself around the temple, which will be able to accommodate about 200,000 visitors a day. Roads have been widened, with the 8-mile, four-lane Ram Path guiding pilgrims to the pink sandstone, three-story structure.
As estimated 31 million Indians live outside of India — and about 50,000 of them gathered in Houston a week ago to listen to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This was the largest-ever gathering with a foreign political leader in the United States. From Australia to Canada, from the United Kingdom to the United States, from Dubai to Israel, no foreign leader has courted his country’s diaspora as assiduously as Modi. His rallies often include the country’s national leader — President Trump joined him in Houston, and British Prime Minister David Cameron accompanied Modi for a 2015 speech to 60,000 members of the Indian diaspora at Wembley Stadium in London.

These rallies clearly have some signaling effects. But who is signaling what to whom?

Modi is not the only one sending signals

A rousing endorsement of Modi from a U.S. immigrant group that is highly successful, by income and education metrics, and is the largest Indian diaspora in any country, sends multiple signals. The huge crowds of supporters overseas help reaffirm Modi’s support at home, and offer a jab at his detractors. For the broader audience in the host country, the message is that this support could transfer to Modi’s hosts, if they are well disposed to India’s concerns.

By this logic, Trump could stand onstage in Houston and share in the applause, but also could see a future stream of political dividends, whether votes or campaign contributions.

Advertisement

The organizers behind these rallies also send a signal to the host country that Indians are well established in the wider political landscape in their new home. The Texas India Forum, a nonprofit organization created for the Houston event, raised an estimated $2.5 million to cover the event costs. The forum distributed tickets to hundreds of community organizations across the country, which were vetted to ensure a full house in the giant stadium and full support for Modi. Critics had to protest outside the stadium.

The Indian diaspora is growing fast — but Indians are not swing voters

How successful are these signals? Indian Americans are one of the fastest-growing U.S. immigrant communities. There are an estimated 4.6 million people of Indian origin in the United States, of whom 2.6 million were born in India. These numbers have increased sixfold from the 450,000 Indian immigrants in the United States in 1990. In 1960, by comparison, there were just 12,000.

Advertisement

Today, people born in India are the second-largest immigrant group in the United States. In 2015, 58 percent were citizens — nearly two-thirds of them were younger than 18. The number of Indian Americans eligible to vote is increasing by about 150,000 annually, a third through naturalization and the rest as children of immigrants reach voting age.

For the 2020 elections, here’s what this means. Voters of Indian origin will barely be about 1 percent of eligible voters. Most lean Democratic. In the 2016 presidential election, according to data from the National Asian American Survey (NAAS), 69 percent of Asian Americans voted for Hillary Clinton and 25 percent for Trump. For Indian Americans, the numbers were 77 percent and 16 percent, respectively. Since most Indian Americans live in heavily Democratic areas — like California and the Northeast — for the most part they are not swing voters in swing states.

In recent years, many Indian immigrants have settled in Texas, with Houston a top destination. As Modi had previously spoken in New York and San Francisco, this was a logical venue choice. But unless Texas has a close election and there’s a large swing away from Democrats among Indian American voters, the prime minister’s lavish praise for Trump in Houston is unlikely to move the needle significantly in the 2020 U.S. election.

Indian Americans are conflicted about Trump

Indian Americans, according to some analysts, would be “natural” supporters of the Republican Party. They are socially conservative, and generally support lighter government regulation. As high-income earners, they favor lower taxes. Many are upper caste who bring with them a wariness of affirmative action.

But the Trump administration’s hard-line policies on immigration — particularly the tighter rules on granting or renewing H1-B visas, or the plan to strip H-4 visa holders (spouses of H1-B visa holders) of the right to work — has hit Indian immigrants hard. And many Indian Americans have reservations about the Republican Party’s evangelical base. Survey data suggest that Trump faces an uphill battle to win the support of the Indian American community. While hard-line Hindus are happy with Trump’s anti-Muslim stance, the increase in anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States affects all immigrants, especially those who are not white.

Advertisement

If Trump’s gains in garnering political support from Indian Americans were modest, so were Modi’s signaling attempts with Trump. The day after the Houston rally, Trump met with India’s archrival — Pakistan’s Imran Khan — and appeared to contradict what he said to the huge Indian American crowds in Houston.

The real star in Texas may be the Indian American community

If the Houston event was more about optics, Modi is masterful at understanding the political payoffs among his domestic constituency in India. He burnished his strong nationalist credentials further as tens of millions watched a no-holds barred articulation of his vision for India.

But perhaps the most interesting signal of the day is the organizing prowess of the Indian American community, which pulled off a huge and successful event. The takeaway here is that this community can mobilize significant resources — people and finances — quickly. This community is more pro-Modi than pro-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as many Indian immigrants in the United States come from South India where Modi’s ruling BJP does not hold much sway.

Advertisement

Geopolitical and domestic factors in both countries are shaping the India-U.S. relationship. While the Indian American diaspora does have some influence in this relationship, with the weight of second-generation Indian Americans increasing rapidly within the community, their concerns and activism are directed much more to what they consider home — the United States.
